In this lesson, I'd like to do a quick introduction or review of query params.
What query params allow us to do is to attach additional information at the end of a URL through the
use of key value pairs.
And that is what's going to allow us to pass information from this form, like the role and the location
of the user would want to search for to the actual job results page.
That's how we're going to preserve this information as we navigate the user to another page in our app.
And so here I am on the actual Google Careers website, and I want to show you how this works in action.
So I'm going to search for a role of view developer and I'm going to search for it in let's do Ohio
in the United States.
I'm going to search right here.
And you'll notice here that we are taken to the expected path, which is slash jobs, slash results.
But at the very end of that final slash, there is this whole bunch of additional text.
These are the query params.
They work like a bunch of key value pairs.
And to give you an example of key value pairs in JavaScript, just think about a JavaScript object.
There is the property which is the key.
It's sort of like a unique identifier or name and connected to that key or property is an associated
value.
So it's almost like a question in an answer, right?
So let me show you here.
After our path here we have this question mark and that is just a required symbol to indicate the start
of a query string.
And then we have a collection of these key value pairs.
So for example, our very first one here is distance.
That is our key.
And then in order to associate it with a value, we use the equals sign.
So distance equals 5050 is the value.
So I'm guessing what this query pram is indicating is the location distance from Ohio that we want to
return the job results for.
So probably this means 50 miles from Ohio.
Now, I don't exactly know the details of what it means for Google because maybe it means 50 kilometers.
I don't know.
The point is that they found a way to attach additional information to the URL so that this page and
this view component can pass that information and use it however it would like.
Maybe it's going to filter the job results.
Maybe it's going to do a different branch of logic.
It doesn't really matter.
The point is that we're sending over information or data in the URL for this component to be able to
pass and process and do something with the way that we separate subsequent query.
Params is with the ampersand sign.
So it's this symbol right here which is shift plus seven on most keyboards that just creates a separation
so that the browser in view can understand where one query pair ends and where the next one begins.
The next one is right here.
It's HL that is some kind of key then the equals sign and then the value which is NYC.
So I don't know what h al is exactly, but I'm guessing NYC means English United States.
So that's again some kind of criteria or additional information that is helping the page do what it
needs to do.
And then you'll notice if I keep navigating here, here is the ampersand that separates the key value
pairs.
Here is where we're actually preserving the information from the previous page.
Here is the location that we entered into that input field in the form.
So notice that the key here is location.
Then we provide an equal sign right here.
And then the value that we entered was Ohio U.S. So you might be curious, what is this symbol right
here, this percentage 20 that is a special symbol that you use in this query param to indicate a space
because you can't actually have a space anywhere in a URL.
So we need some kind of symbol to play the role of a space or to indicate that that is a space.
So instead of a literal space, we do this character of percentage 20, and many times your browser
will automatically inject it for you.
So here is where we stored the location that we searched for.
And then if we move to our final query param, which starts right here, you can see we have the final
ampersand, we have our key or property, which is.
Q And I'm guessing that means query.
So what did the user search for then?
The equal sign?
And then finally our submission from the last page.
View Developer Once again, the space between the end of view and the beginning of developer is marked
by that percentage sign 20.
But again, it's, it's just another key value pair, another combination of an identifier and a value
that we've given to this page that it can now use.
So we have something like four or five different key value pairs and they all make up what are called
the query params.
All right.
And if and again, what we can do is use this component pass or read the query params from the URL and
then do something with it.
So in short, this is how we're going to start sending data over from our home page to our job results
page, and we're going to start implementing that logic in our app in the next lesson.